# slid

**slid** is a simple, 12-byte (96-bit) lexicographically-sortable identifier encoder for Go that embeds a nanosecond-resolution timestamp with a 32-bit atomically-incremented counter value. In other words, it generates IDs. Which are small. And probably unique (usually 2.14e22 unique identifiers per millsecond). And maybe usable.

Lexicographically-ordered IDs can be quite useful for key/value stores like [LMDB](https://symas.com/offerings/lightning-memory-mapped-database/) and [BoltDB](https://github.com/boltdb/bolt) in situations when you'd like for values to be time-sorted. The identifiers generated by **slid** sacrifice human readability for performance and identifier size versus, for example, RFC 3339-encoded timestamps.

> **NOTE**: Since a SLID is generated via a counter value, it's best used only in long-running processes, and only when there's no vulnerability in a user being able to potentially jump an identifier to the next value in the sequence. Otherwise, prefer some sort of [UUID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier).

## Getting Started

This package uses Go modules. If you've installed Go, import the package:

    import "github.com/boatilus/slid"

You can then run `go mod tidy` to grab the package.

From there, _slide_ into generating some _slids_ ⛷️

    id := slid.New()                    // constructs a new SLID struct with the current time
    encodedID := id.Encode()            // returns a []byte
    decodedID := slid.Decode(encodedID) // returns a SLID struct

## Benchmarks

    BenchmarkNew-4             	50000000	        30.2 ns/op
    BenchmarkEncode-4          	30000000	        34.7 ns/op
    BenchmarkNewThenEncode-4   	30000000	        52.3 ns/op
    BenchmarkDecode-4          	100000000	        10.9 ns/op

(Run on a 2.7 GHz Haswell Core i5)

## Running the tests

go test -v

## License

This project is dedicated to the public domain via Creative Commons CC0 - see [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Inspired by [Alizain Feerasta's](https://github.com/alizain) [ULID](https://github.com/alizain/ulid).
